[MUSIC]
Before we learn how to simulate from
complicated posterior distributions.
Let's review some of the basics
of Monte Carlo estimation.
Monte Carlo estimation refers
to simulating hypothetical
draws from a probability distribution.
In order to calculate important
quantities of that distribution.
Some of these quantities might
include the mean, the variance,
the probability of some event, or
the quantiles of the distribution.
All of these calculations
involve integration.
Which, except in the simplest cases,
can be very difficult or
even impossible to compute analytically.
Let's suppose we have
a random variable theta.
This random variable theta
is going to follow a gamma
distribution with shape a and rate b.
And let's suppose a = 2.
And b equals 1/3.
To calculate the mean
of this distribution,
we would need to compute
the following integral.
The expected value of theta
is equal to the integral over
the whole space for theta.
Which in the case of a gamma is from 0 to
infinity theta times the density for
theta.
Now in the case of a gamma,
this equals the integral
0 to infinity theta times
b to the power of a.
Over a gamma function evaluated at a,
times theta to the a-1,
and e to the -b theta.
This is the integral we
will need to compute.
And in this particular case,
it is possible to compute this integral.
The answer is a over b, or with these
particular values the answer is 6.
However, we can verify this answer
using Monte Carlo estimation.
To do so,
we will simulate a large number of draws.
Let's call them theta star i, for
draw i in one up to some large number m.
We would simulate this from
this gamma distribution.
And to estimate the sample,
or to estimate the actual theoretical
mean of this distribution.
We would take the sample mean or
the average of these draws.
Why can we do this?
Recall from the previous course that if we
have a random sample from a distribution.
The average of those samples converges
in probability to the true mean of
that distribution by
the Law of Large Numbers.
Furthermore, by the central limit theorem,
this sample mean or the sample
mean of these pieces right here.
We're going to call that theta bar star,
which is 1/m times the sum
of our simulated values.
Theta star i.
This sample mean right here approximately
follows a normal distribution.
Where the mean of that normal
distribution is the true expected value.
And the variance of that is the true
variance of the distribution divided by m,
the sample size.
The theoretical variance of
theta is the following integral.
The variance of theta just like
the expected value, we did up here.
We're calculating the expected value of
theta minus its expected value squared.
And of course,
multiplying by the density of theta.
Just like we did with the mean,
we could approximate this variance
with the sample variance.
This method of Monte Carlo estimation
can be use to calculate many different
integrals.
Let's say, for example,
that h of theta is function of theta,
and we want to calculate
the following integral.
h of theta times the density of theta,
d theta.
This integral is precisely what is meant
by the expectation of a h of theta.
So, conveniently,
we can approximate it by taking
a sample mean of h evaluated for
each of these samples.
That is if we were to
calculate the sample mean.
Where we evaluate the h function on
each of our simulated samples of theta.
This quantity would approximate this
expected value which is this integral.
So we would apply this function
h to every simulated sample and
then take the average of the results.
One extremely useful example
of such an h function
is the indicator function,
written like this.
It's a function of theta and
a here would be some sort of logical
condition about the value of theta.
To demonstrate this let's suppose that
in an example, let's say that h of theta
is the indicator that
theta is less than 5.
This function here,
this indicator will give us a 1
if theta is indeed less than 5,
or it will return a 0 otherwise.
So what is the expected value,
Of h of theta here?
Well this is the intergral
from zero to infinity,
once again, assuming that theta is
coming from a gamma distribution.
The expected value of h of
theta will be h of theta this
indicator function,
times the density of theta.
So if we evaluate this,
this function will come out to be a 1.
If theta is between 0 and 5, so 0 to 5.
1 times the density of theta
plus the rest of the values 5 up to
infinity of 0 times the density.
This piece right here
is going to disappear.
And this right here, if we integrate
the density between these two values.
That's simply calculating the probability
that 0 is less than theta is less than 5.
The probability that theta is
between these two numbers.
So what does this mean?
It means that we can approximate
this probability right
here by drawing many samples,
theta star I.
And approximating this
integral with the following.
We would take the sample mean, Of
these indicator functions where
theta star is less than 5.
And apply it to our simulated values.
What this function does is simply counts
how many of our simulated
values meet this criteria.
And then divides by the total
number of samples taken.
So this approximates the probability
that theta is less than five,
that's pretty convenient.
Likewise, we can approximate
quantiles of a distribution.
If we're looking for
a value z, that makes it so
that the probability of being
less than z is 0.9 for example.
We would simply arrange the samples
theta star I in ascending order.
And then we would find the smallest value
of the theta stars that's greater than
90% of the others.
In other words we would take
the 90th percentile of the theta
stars to approximate the 0.9
quantile of the distribution.
[MUSIC]